SETUP.md, before:

# Setup Guide

This guide will help you get the Root Beer Review App up and running.

## Quick Start

1. **Install dependencies**:
   ```bash
   uv pip install -r requirements.txt
   # or
   pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

2. **Create `.env` file**:
   
   First, generate a secure secret key:
   ```bash
   python -c "import secrets; print(secrets.token_urlsafe(32))"
   ```
   
   Then create your `.env` file:
   ```env
   MONGODB_URI=mongodb+srv://username:password@cluster.mongodb.net/rootbeer_reviews?retryWrites=true&w=majority
   DATABASE_NAME=rootbeer_reviews
   SECRET_KEY=<paste-generated-key-here>
   ADMIN_EMAIL=admin@example.com
   ADMIN_PASSWORD=change-this-password
   ENVIRONMENT=development
   ```
   
   See `SECRET_KEY_GENERATION.md` for more options.

3. **Run the app**:
   
   With `uv` (recommended):
   ```bash
   uv run uvicorn app.main:app --reload
   ```
   
   Or if using a virtual environment:
   ```bash
   # Activate venv first (if using traditional venv)
   source venv/bin/activate  # or `venv\Scripts\activate` on Windows
   uvicorn app.main:app --reload
   ```

4. **Access**:
   - Public: http://localhost:8000
   - Admin: http://localhost:8000/admin/login

## MongoDB Setup

### Option 1: MongoDB Atlas (Recommended for Production)

1. Create a free account at [MongoDB Atlas](https://www.mongodb.com/cloud/atlas)
2. Create a new cluster
3. Create a database user
4. Whitelist your IP address (or use 0.0.0.0/0 for development)
5. Get your connection string and add it to `.env` as `MONGODB_URI`

### Option 2: Local MongoDB

1. Install MongoDB locally
2. Start MongoDB service
3. Use connection string: `mongodb://localhost:27017/rootbeer_reviews`

## Initial Setup

On first run, the app will automatically:
- Create the admin user from environment variables (if it doesn't exist)
- Seed default data (flavor notes, colors, serving contexts) if collections are empty
- Set up database collections as needed

**Note:** Once the admin user is created in MongoDB, the `ADMIN_PASSWORD` in your `.env` file is only used for initial account creation. You can change your password later through the admin interface at `/admin/account`. The password stored in MongoDB takes precedence after the initial setup.

### Default Data

The app automatically seeds default data on startup (only if collections are empty):
- **20 Flavor Notes**: Sassafras, Vanilla, Cinnamon, and more from the planning documents
- **5 Colors**: Amber, Brown, Dark Brown, Black, Mahogany
- **5 Serving Contexts**: Bottle, Can, Tap, Fountain, Growler

You can add more options through the admin interface at `/admin/flavor-notes` and `/admin/metadata`.

## Default Collections

The app uses these MongoDB collections:
- `rootbeers` - Root beer product information
- `reviews` - Review data
- `flavor_notes` - Flavor note tags
- `admin_users` - Admin user accounts
- `colors` - Color options for root beers
- `serving_contexts` - Serving context options

## Troubleshooting

### Connection Issues
- Verify your MongoDB URI is correct
- Check network connectivity
- Ensure IP is whitelisted (for Atlas)

### Authentication Issues
- Verify `SECRET_KEY` is set
- Check admin email/password in `.env`
- Clear cookies and try logging in again

### Import Errors
- Ensure all dependencies are installed
- Check Python version (3.12+)
- Verify virtual environment is activated

## Next Steps

1. Log in to admin panel at `/admin/login`
2. **Default data is already seeded!** You'll find:
   - 20 flavor notes ready to use
   - 5 colors and 5 serving contexts
   - You can add more through the admin interface
3. Create your first root beer entry
4. Write your first review!

## Progressive Web App (PWA)

The app is configured as a PWA and can be installed on mobile devices and desktop browsers:

- **Mobile**: Open in Safari/Chrome → Share → "Add to Home Screen"
- **Desktop**: Look for install icon in Chrome/Edge address bar

See [PWA_SETUP.md](PWA_SETUP.md) for detailed instructions and icon setup.

Commit message:

Fix Heroku build: Remove requirements.txt, use uv exclusively
This commit fixes the Heroku build error by removing requirements.txt
and using uv as the exclusive package manager, as required by Heroku's
updated buildpack policy.

Issue Fixed:
- Heroku build was failing with error: "Multiple Python package manager
  files were found" (requirements.txt and uv.lock)
- Heroku's Python buildpack no longer supports implicit package manager
  selection (deprecated November 2024)
- Must explicitly choose one package manager

Solution:
- Removed requirements.txt file
- Project now uses uv exclusively via pyproject.toml and uv.lock
- All dependencies are defined in pyproject.toml
- uv.lock provides deterministic dependency resolution

Why uv:
- Project was already configured for uv
- uv is fast, actively maintained, and supports lockfiles
- Heroku's buildpack has native uv support
- Better dependency management with lockfiles

Changes:
- Deleted requirements.txt
- Updated README.md to use "uv sync" instead of "uv pip install -r requirements.txt"
- Updated SETUP.md to reflect uv-only installation
- Updated CHANGELOG.md with build fix note
- Updated project structure documentation

Documentation Updates:
- README.md: Changed installation instructions to "uv sync"
- README.md: Updated project structure to show uv.lock instead of requirements.txt
- README.md: Updated tech stack to show "uv (exclusive)"
- SETUP.md: Updated installation steps to use "uv sync"
- CHANGELOG.md: Added Heroku build fix entry

Impact:
- Heroku builds will now succeed
- Local development unchanged (already using uv)
- No functional changes to the application
- Cleaner dependency management with single source of truth (pyproject.toml)

This is a build/deployment fix with no impact on application functionality.

SETUP.md, after:

# Setup Guide

This guide will help you get the Root Beer Review App up and running.

## Quick Start

1. **Install dependencies using `uv`**:
   ```bash
   uv sync
   ```
   
   This installs all dependencies from `pyproject.toml` and creates/updates the lock file.

2. **Create `.env` file**:
   
   First, generate a secure secret key:
   ```bash
   python -c "import secrets; print(secrets.token_urlsafe(32))"
   ```
   
   Then create your `.env` file:
   ```env
   MONGODB_URI=mongodb+srv://username:password@cluster.mongodb.net/rootbeer_reviews?retryWrites=true&w=majority
   DATABASE_NAME=rootbeer_reviews
   SECRET_KEY=<paste-generated-key-here>
   ADMIN_EMAIL=admin@example.com
   ADMIN_PASSWORD=change-this-password
   ENVIRONMENT=development
   ```
   
   See `SECRET_KEY_GENERATION.md` for more options.

3. **Run the app**:
   
   With `uv`:
   ```bash
   uv run uvicorn app.main:app --reload
   ```

4. **Access**:
   - Public: http://localhost:8000
   - Admin: http://localhost:8000/admin/login

## MongoDB Setup

### Option 1: MongoDB Atlas (Recommended for Production)

1. Create a free account at [MongoDB Atlas](https://www.mongodb.com/cloud/atlas)
2. Create a new cluster
3. Create a database user
4. Whitelist your IP address (or use 0.0.0.0/0 for development)
5. Get your connection string and add it to `.env` as `MONGODB_URI`

### Option 2: Local MongoDB

1. Install MongoDB locally
2. Start MongoDB service
3. Use connection string: `mongodb://localhost:27017/rootbeer_reviews`

## Initial Setup

On first run, the app will automatically:
- Create the admin user from environment variables (if it doesn't exist)
- Seed default data (flavor notes, colors, serving contexts) if collections are empty
- Set up database collections as needed

**Note:** Once the admin user is created in MongoDB, the `ADMIN_PASSWORD` in your `.env` file is only used for initial account creation. You can change your password later through the admin interface at `/admin/account`. The password stored in MongoDB takes precedence after the initial setup.

### Default Data

The app automatically seeds default data on startup (only if collections are empty):
- **20 Flavor Notes**: Sassafras, Vanilla, Cinnamon, and more from the planning documents
- **5 Colors**: Amber, Brown, Dark Brown, Black, Mahogany
- **5 Serving Contexts**: Bottle, Can, Tap, Fountain, Growler

You can add more options through the admin interface at `/admin/flavor-notes` and `/admin/metadata`.

## Default Collections

The app uses these MongoDB collections:
- `rootbeers` - Root beer product information
- `reviews` - Review data
- `flavor_notes` - Flavor note tags
- `admin_users` - Admin user accounts
- `colors` - Color options for root beers
- `serving_contexts` - Serving context options

## Troubleshooting

### Connection Issues
- Verify your MongoDB URI is correct
- Check network connectivity
- Ensure IP is whitelisted (for Atlas)

### Authentication Issues
- Verify `SECRET_KEY` is set
- Check admin email/password in `.env`
- Clear cookies and try logging in again

### Import Errors
- Ensure all dependencies are installed
- Check Python version (3.12+)
- Verify virtual environment is activated

## Next Steps

1. Log in to admin panel at `/admin/login`
2. **Default data is already seeded!** You'll find:
   - 20 flavor notes ready to use
   - 5 colors and 5 serving contexts
   - You can add more through the admin interface
3. Create your first root beer entry
4. Write your first review!

## Progressive Web App (PWA)

The app is configured as a PWA and can be installed on mobile devices and desktop browsers:

- **Mobile**: Open in Safari/Chrome → Share → "Add to Home Screen"
- **Desktop**: Look for install icon in Chrome/Edge address bar

See [PWA_SETUP.md](PWA_SETUP.md) for detailed instructions and icon setup.
